---
draft: "true"
---
*"I'm not a cynic, I'm a realist"* (or some form of variant) is a phrase which I have heavily relied on when filling out what is known as **the how** in my performance reviews at MECCA (the other axis being **the what**). 
This crutch has been a good way to admit that I'm fully aware I could probably be less of a prick but it's with a good heart that I approach most of my work cautiously.

I feel this year has been a massive test of this ideology - so much is constantly developing in the tech space that it's actually becoming quite hard to stay on top of it all where I can maintain a health level of informed scepticism.
Ideally we can avoid spending this piece talking about AI for the whole time - we can talk about everything around it, the impact such a hyper-focus on the space is having to everything else, and how despite its prevalence people really just don't know how best to use this stuff **but** I'll make the call and say we don't need another AI deep dive from someone who really only knows *kind of* what they're talking about.

Sadly, I am a tech bro at heart, so let's rapid fire some views about AI to fulfil my needs to give you my opinion on this all:

1. At least in my immediate company, I feel I've done a decent job to encourage AI adoption and we have made some of the more considerable strides in implementing Foundational Model backed solutions into production and have more in the pipeline.
2. Even with less bureaucracy and greater freedom in my space to deliver AI enabled solutions - it is still such a challenge to get this stuff into production.
3. I'm still in an evaluating phase of AI for software development - I use it conservatively for my own coding needs but in the context of a team I have no issues with others in the team *"vibe coding"*.
4. The phrase *"vibe coding"* is tiring and we shouldn't name entire paradigm shifts in ways of working [after tweets](https://i.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/original/003/029/656/85c.png).
5. I do think now is a great time for sceptics to become acquainted with the tech, [there's well written books to get you up to speed](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/ai-engineering/9781098166298/) and whilst so much is changing in the space I've found it's not overwhelming to get up to speed with how these tools work.
6. It's probably still a bubble but everything that actually gets funding in tech is these days so I'm not as obsessed with this idea anymore.

## Financially viable software developers
What the fuck is going on with the job market? There's a wave of redundancies every second day, no one wants to spend any money on us, and there's 0 appetite to build anything in-house.

