The transition from software development as a hobby into software development as a career includes the epiphany that writing code will slowly become the easiest part of the job. I love coding, it pains me to sound so cliche and repeat adages like these but it's a hard truth to come to terms with especially in early days. A personal goal of mine as a tech lead is protecting the enjoyment that comes with coding - I want people in the team to grow through tackling the soft skill oriented parts of the job but aim to give them the space to do their best work on the tools. *"Let 'em cook"*. 

It was only in writing this article that I realised my current place of employment is considered *"Enterprise"* - not that I'm shocked, just never thought about it. Both through personal experience and those of my peers, I've see the transition from a medium to large scale business and the impact it can have on developing software. I need to emphasise **medium** here, as it does seem in this in-between state of a company that doing things a way that is *Enterprise* becomes naturally becomes a North Star. You see the changes take place, what once was an internally developed system which did the job is now not fit for future. Architects and analysts are suddenly privy to the fact that code is a liability, and off-the-shelf is the way to go. What was once a small chat which could be effectively turned around into a solution only a matter of sprints later is now several gatherings of stakeholders accompanied by the time-loop of Confluence Doc screen shares. 

Objectively, it often makes sense that things end up this way. I work for a retailer where, like many, our sales are a blend of online and in-store. I know that for a good chunk of the business they view software as just a thing which is installed and used to support the penultimate goal of selling makeup. 
Point of Sale, Warehouse Management, and Enterprise Resource Planning software differ greatly in how they're managed and rolled out when compared to one of the various Web APIs which support the web store. 
Especially with anything fulfilment related, you are dealing with some very real challenges that cannot just be remedied with better engineering and so implementing or modifying these systems does required thorough stages of planning and a more conservative approach to the whole software development lifecycle entirely. Poor technical decisions with this kind of tech aren't just something that can be hotfixed or feature flagged; rolling out a bad patch to every store back of house device in the country is much harder to undo when compared to a bad container image. 

At what point are we doing too much though? This is a hotbed of imposter syndrome for me as I am constantly wondering if I'm oversimplifying things. It's hard not to think when so many ideas are put forward which you internally deem as too complicated, that you may be just be a bit dumb. In another life maybe I decided Software Engineering was just a hobby and that all of programming to me was writing Minecraft mods as a 15 year old - maybe I did go into software architecture. Good developers generally can do a bit of everything when it comes to delivering technological solutions. In many cases the next phase of a software developers career *is* *not* being a software developer. All this is to say, a little voice in my head groans every time I stare at a diagrams.net export with complexity rivalling the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.

[Even if we're unsure to where, businesses have to move fast.](https://itnext.io/we-have-to-move-fast-but-where-are-we-going-again-d9baf404baec) In an effort meet the needs of this ever growing Visio diagram, our developers have become the bottleneck. To reiterate, I get it.
Many retailers for example are not selling technology as a good or service, the technology is an enable and having internal engineering teams is often a very big loss to offset. This is mitigated by ensuring that *when* something is being built, it's going to work for a very long time before a refresh is needed. We can all agree this is a good thing, there are plenty of well documented ways to achieve this outcome as a software engineer. To the enterprise leader however, entrusting the people are hired to build and maintain software is a risk many businesses wouldn't accept and instead we need to delegate the hard stuff to an off the shelf solution.

I hate to sound like a broken record - this line of thinking is reasonable. Sticking with what I know, I'd rather not handle my own payments and off the shelf eCommerce platforms help the developers you may hire internally focus on building the flashy storefront. It's when the solutions that could easily have been achieved by getting a couple of devs to write an API with a database which will probably be prod ready in a few sprints become a series of RFCs, KDDs, and immersion sessions. The time spent getting to a point of t-shirt sizing easily eclipsing the *dare I say* *"scrappy"* approach of testing ideas early and iterating.

Maybe you will land on the same solution during this planning phase that you would've gone with anyway - but that's highly unlikely if you've approached it with the "ASP.NET Core Web API + Postgres Database" boilerplate I have committed to memory. After all, nothing is more future proof than writing as little code as possible - and we definitely shouldn't be writing SQL queries **from scratch**. What seems so simple on paper when you're willing to build a few controllers is actually very complicated and needs to be be supplemented through a variety of off the shelf, low-code solutions. Don't forget these alternatives are all on an enshittification timer - you're right to assume they will become exorbitantly expensive and you'll either pay it or put in enough dev work to curb the costs that you probably should've just built it yourself in the first place.

With the current industry obsession of *"Agentic"* products and services there are forces at play which further solidify this reality. In an attempt to inject some optimism into this thinly veiled whinge piece - there has never been a better time to build cool shit with computers. The barrier to entry is constantly lowering; not even in the *vibe coded slop* perspective but more so with how easy it is to cheaply deploy your crafted software to the public. 
Get excited next time you're asked to build an MVP, provision a new RDS instance, or bolt on a new endpoint to a legacy application - it's better than the alternative.